Hey guys, welcome back! We're actually going to wind up this section now. That'll come as
a great relief to some of you, but a
disappointment to others but I'll
explain why. And we're going to be talking about compacting your Unity Folder, briefly. So firstly,
we're going to talk about what we left out of this section and why. We'll be checking that our
project is tidy. I'll show you how to compact your Unity Folder, to save space. I'll show you how
to find our code on GitHub, at any stage
of our lectures, and then, we'll go over
to you. So, what we've left out, we've left
out Xbox controllers, because we're going to
cover them in another section, where we're going to make better use of the two sticks
and the fact that they're analog. We've left out mini-maps, because they're quite a lot of work
to code, and there's lots of them available on the asset store. We've left out
enemy spawning, because it's been
covered in previous sections, such
as Glitch Garden in detail and it's pretty simple. We've even done it here with the player, so
why not use a similar thing? Do you
even want to spawn your enemies? Spawning is a bit
weird right? Maybe they just want to be
in the scene in the beginning, who knows? We've left
out helicopter landing, the detail of that, because it's simply
an animation, and I want to see what you
guys can do with that. As a tip here, you
may want about a minute out, to re-vector the helicopter, rather than heading just
randomly towards the play space, to
adjust its heading to head exactly at the
landing area, but decide how you want to
land. Do you want to come overhead and do a
vertical landing, which is dangerous if
you get an engine failure at low
altitude, or do you want the helicopter
to make a more standard flare landing?
I love to see what you do, please share it in the discussions. And weapon pickups,
because we'll be covering that in another
section, about how to do pickups, in a
future section I'll be adding. Yes there's more to come, and you'll be able to apply this back
to this section. So, that's why we're not
covering those things there. Now, this
is my code repository. We'll be talking
about that more in a moment, but for now,
I want to dive into the Unity Project
here, and I want to have a little look at
a couple of things. Firstly, I want to go
through all of the hierarchy, etc., and
I want to make sure that it's all tidy and
clean. So ok, so here we are, let's take a
look through. So, the editor scripts came
in with the standard packages, so they're fine.
The Game Folder, what's going on in here?
Well, traditionally we would call this
the Scenes Folder, and under it we see we
have another Game Folder, which contains
another Navmesh. What's going on there?
Well, we can delete this Navmesh
actually, and what happens is, Game is the
name of the scene and when you bake the Navmesh, it creates a sub folder called
Game. So, let me make this clear, I'm going to rename my Games Folder to Scene. Yes, I did
just delete that Games Sub Folder, but
bear with me. Now, just watch it for a moment.
Make a folder called Scenes right, and then, you've got in it a Level Definition or
a Scene Definition called Game. Fine and it has the terrain! Now, I may as well call the terrain game, as
well. So, it's this terrain for this
scene Ok. Now, if I bake now, which is
doing lots of pre-computation of the
Navigation Mesh, it's going to draw polygons
around trees and do a lot of work. That
means that when the AI agent, i.e. the zombie
comes to run at you, it's going to be much much faster at run-time, because of this
work it's doing now, and down on the bottom right, you can see the progress. And what you'll
find in a moment is, we'll create a sub folder in here, called the same as the
scene, and the scene is called Game. So, it will expect to see a sub folder called game,
there you go, and that contains the Navmesh. Ok, so that's what's going on with
those funny sub folders. Prefabs all look good and the scripts are all fine and the standard
assets are there, but bear in mind they're
quite large and we'll talk about
compacting your folder down in a moment. And then, the start pack is also quite large.
So, let's right click Standard Assets, and
I'm going to show this in Finder. It's a
very similar thing in Windows. The standard assets that we've imported
total 158 and make a fair amount, but there's also other
things in here that we can reduce the
size of. So, if we go back to the Zombie Runner
Level, you'll notice that with practically all of your Unity projects
you have a load of stuff in the root, at
least a user press file, but potentially
a load of other stuff as well. CM Proj...
sorry project files and all sorts of
other stuff at the root, and then, you
will also have a Project Settings Folder
and a Assets Folder and a Library Folder and a Temp
Folder. Look you can tidy up your hierarchy here, you only need the Assets
Folder and the Project Settings Folder,
all of the rest of the stuff can go.
I'm not going to delete it, because my
Code Management Tool, which I'll show you in
a moment, automatically ignores this
stuff, but if you want to compact your
folder down, you can safely delete your
Library Folder and every other file in
the root of here, just to let you know. Ok, and then, it will be rebuilt when you next open
Unity. So, you're welcome to save your
project and have a go at that. Ok, now I'm
going to show you our final thing, which is
how to find the code for all of our
projects. So, if I save what I've got here and then, I go over to something
called Source Tree, which is a visual
tool for Git source management... And
we will talk about this, probably in a
separate course possibly at the end of
this course, in a while, but this is
very useful for you as a student, even if
you don't understand Git, and even if you don't have an account on Git, because when I've
finished every lecture, like I just did...
Let me just show you a little bit behind
the curtain, as to what I do. I come along
here and I add everything that has
changed, that I just did in that lecture. I
commit it and I commit it with a name,
that is the name of the lecture that
we're currently working on. So, in this case that is this,
"Compacting Your Unity Folder". Ok, and
then, what that means you end up with if
we go to the Git Hub website, even as an
anonymous user where you don't
have an account then, look at this if you
go github.com/CompleteUnityCreator
then... What have I done here?
Oh, CompleteUnityCreator is what I meant to type! Ok, here we go!
CompleteUnityDeveloper! Oh, it's late at night and I'm trying to get this finished for you guys. Ok!
So, github.com/CompleteUnityDeveloper
If you click on a section, say Zombie Runner, you'll see the latest code available, and you can
download it as .zip. Notice that the library file is not there
Ok, and neither are any other files in the root, apart from stuff to do with Git.
And then, if I go to 24 Commits or the number of commits at the top left here, what this
will give you is a snapshot of our project at the end of every single video,
literally named the file of the video. So, if I was to click here, "Scaling Your
Characters", that one earlier in the section, and say "Browse the repository at
this point in history", now I get
something that looks very similar, but it's
actually the state of our project at the
end of that video. And you can click
Download ZIP and you can get it and
inspect what we've done. So, hopefully
that's useful to you. You may want to
follow me on GitHub, github.com/BenTristem
and you follow me, and you can
see all the commits to all of my
projects the Unity, the Blender, the Game
Physics, anything else I do. Ok!
So, that's a little look behind the scenes at code management, and I just wanted to let you
know you can get to all our things there.
Now, it's over to you with Zombie Runner!
So, I want to wean you off holding your hand, Ok. I've stopped
building user interfaces in Bowl Master, but that doesn't mean that
you should stop. It means that you should
do exactly what some of our students
have done and create your own unique interface. I want you to make the zombie spawn,
that's already covered in Glitch Garden. It's already pretty easy to do, so I want
you to do that for yourself. Create a
spawning strategy or no spawning, maybe
just position a bunch of zombies in the
game. And make the helicopter landing, so
the helicopter currently is going to arrive at the edge or in the middle of
the scene, depending on how you've set it up. You may, at about one minute out, want to
arrange for the helicopter to head towards the landing area. That's something you're
plenty capable of doing now. Create a
user interface. Please take
the time to do this one. Make something
that's sympathetic to this game. Share it in
the discussions, I really want to see what
you create. And then, change the zombie
mesh to some free asset perhaps or
something you've made from the
asset store or your own creation. So
basically, make it your own and finish the
game. I want you getting into the habit of
finishing the game. My job is to finish the
course; your job is to start finishing
games. So, please take the time to finish
Zombie Runner, and once we have learned new things, in future sections,
then come back to Zombie Runner and continue to improve it Ok. Hopefully, one of you will make
this into a game that you can share on
the iOS or Android store.
So, congratulations getting this far in the
course! Crack straight on with the
next section, and let's keep the momentum up, as soon as it's available. See you soon!